Pereira, Colombia

To the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies:

“I come as one but I stand as ten thousand”, those are the immortal words written by the activist, professor and poet Maya Angelou (where). This letter is the collective effort of relatives, friends, acquaintances, mentors and lovers alike who have supported me across more than 40,000 kilometres (around the globe).

My upbringing in a country with a remarkable diversity that has also been suffering from deep corruption and systemic war, from drug cartels to paramilitary groups. This environment had also an effect on my parents, who would often return from work with aching bodies, trying their best to provide for my brother and me. With their actions, they ensured that I learnt discipline, moral principles and the importance of education.

The school I attended was a predominantly white, bilingual and characterised by a welcoming charm, where I had my first chance to look outside of my “bubble” through the international faculty. Then through my social studies classes, where MUN simulations were organized, events that laid a seed of interest for international affairs. My bachelors in Industrial Engineering, was not selected because of vocation or passion, nonetheless it gave me the opportunity to understand sets of data to deliver the best path of improvement for any given process. 

I started to forge my future for the first time when I looked for a part time job at the same time I was starting university. Responsibility was my main take away. One year later I wanted to focus on something more meaningful, so I joined the team of environmental interpreters that the botanical garden of my university had. Understanding the key principles of sustainability, collective responsibility, social-nature balance and climate change.

Joining AIESEC, an international NGO in my third year of university triggered a series of events that pushed me to look closer to two aspects; my personal and professional life. Over the years, in the organization, I supported the implementation, engagement of third parties and spread the awareness about the UN Sustainable Development Goals since their inception. Initially as a volunteer and later as part of national executive boards across the Americas, Asia, Europe and Africa, creating and implementing national strategies. 

After leaving Colombia I was exposed at some point to almost every nationality on earth, having the chance of living in different countries and attending to numerous conferences with a hide range of attendees. Learning first hand about different global issues, their ramifications, the main actors and how they affect everyday citizens. Among them: The Sudanese and Syrian war, the Crimea dispute, the USA intervention in the Middle East, Baltics and Latin America, the contrast between the eastern and western Europe post WW2, the Palestine/Middle East-Israeli conflict and many other affairs. All major topics that shape peace and the daily geopolitical state around the world, allowing me a glance to understand the world I wish to improve. 

That has been part of my story. But the concrete reason of my application is here: As a member of the LGBT+ community, I was always on the look for encouraging stories and the different policies that countries were adapting, finding mainly tragedy. So I forged a vision: Improve how the world perceives the LGBT+ community.

More than three years ago I was shown the Graduate Institute by one of the alumnus and after he saw my potential, passion and ambition he mentioned this institution as a catalyst for my dreams. After a deep research, I believe the MIA program with its interdisciplinary approach combining both a strong academic and practical methodology, can offer me the insights needed to solve tomorrow’s problems. Additionally, with its unique research practice of the Capstone projects, where I hope to conduct meaningful research that leads change and builds for tomorrow I see this establishment as my top choice. 

Given that I want to join an organization with a global scope, the tools that this pristine institution and that Geneva as the heart of international diplomacy can provide, are incomparable. That’s why I been forming myself over the years to be part of this institute. And recently, the reason of why I have taken my formal education forward investing my personal savings on a series of online curses about international conflict and International law, learning about the different pressing issues, the treaties that go in hand with them, how they are enforced and by which bodies.

I am writing as an engineer, volunteer, scholar, queer, Latino, traveller, dreamer and maker. I want to finish my letter with the sentence I will be thinking on my graduation day of the Master in International Affairs: “I got this far because of the path so many have paved for me, now I shall keep paving the way for many others”.

Sincerely,
David Calle Garcia 