Pereira, Colombia

To: The Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies

// Maybe some introduction?

Privilege - this is the word that defines my early education in life. I had the honour to study in one of the most prestigious schools. A bilingual, white-dominated and welcoming space. From all the members in my family that attended this school, only a quarter of us managed to graduate from it.

// Question: why you would start with privilege as as a reason why you want the position? - You're definitely not privileged - I'd go from the angle that _thanks_ to the tuition you were able to be at the place, coming from a place of gratitude. 

Why? When I was younger, the tuition fee was an affordable option for a lower-middle-class family in Pereira. As the school was slowly developing from a small building in the city to a country-wide project, the fee increased massively, leaving no choice for many but to drop out. 

My school holds a yearly art exposition where all its students create projects - paintings, sculptures or installations. This matched with my parent’s occupation, as they would create canvases for the school, bases for sculptures or wooden pieces related to the installations. That is how my parents could afford the it. Under this agreement, I had the chance to access an international faculty, an intensive (7 am to 4 pm) and excellent education. Additionally, the unique chance to learn a second language, something that is still rarity in my country. 

Looking back at those years, I can hardly believe the effort of my parents, which continues to this day, so that my brother and I have the best living conditions. They often come home with aching bodies, after weeks of non-stop working seven days a week. With their daily actions, they ensured that I understood the importance of discipline, moral principles and education. 

I chose my university, not because of passion or vocation but because it was the only public university in my city, therefore the only option. At the time I was starting university, I decided to set a personal goal, knowing my country better by travelling to a different city every year. I picked a newspaper, a red pen, and selected a weekend job so it would not clash with my classes. A few days after attending university classes, I also started as party recreationist, sharing with children and adults, it was a very joyful job that lasted for 3 years (2012-2015), where I learned  dedication and responsibility.

In my second year of university, I started a new job, because of what it could teach me and the new opportunities it could bring, hence I presented my CV and after a month of trials and rigorous natural science education, I became an environmental interpreter in the botanical garden of my university. A job I had until I left the country after finishing all my subjects from my bachelors. After 4 years (2013-2017) of constant improvement in the field, I had the opportunity to understand and create awareness to hundreds about the key principles of sustainability, collective responsibility, social-nature balance and climate change.

Even though my education was challenging, it was not fulfilling. Thats why I decided to join an international NGO in my third year of universityö. This allowed me to define who I am and I was asking myself what I really want from life. After being a volunteer for 3 years (2014-2017), scaling in the internal hierarchical ladder, I became part of the national board of Panama (2017-18), Jordan (2018-19) and Austria (2019-20). 

By experiencing different countries and being part of international conferences, I was permitted to share with people from almost every country on earth. The reason for my application goes deeper than that: As a member of the LGBT+ community, I am always on the look for encouraging stories and how countries are adapting to different policies. And even though our attitude of gay people has greatly improved in recent years, I still see so much inequality und suffering in our community. So I forged a vision: Improve how the world perceives the LGBT+ community.

After years of discovering myself and the world, this is the first time I am completely sure about my next step: Studying the Master in International Affairs at the Graduate Institute, an institution that I heard from an alumnus, so I can fullfill my goal of LGBT+ perception. 

My parents nor myself have enough savings to support both the tuition fee and the expenses of living in Geneva. Today I am asking you to look at my story, the opportunities that I have gotten and how this could only happen because of every individual that has supported me over the years. I want to achieve my dreams through my potential, passion, ambition and determination. I will only portray excellence for this institution, but that can only happen if I’m granted this scholarship. 

// There is not enough struggle in this - You said that "the struggles you had" but it is not evident so far, especially that you speak of privilege. I'd either argue from a standpoint of privilege, and how you realized that nothing without it could happen, or the struggles, but not both so I edited a bit of the paragraphs

Sincerely,

David Calle Garcia